README.md, before:

# Cat Finder

Cat Finder is a React + Vite app that uses [The Cat API](https://thecatapi.com/) to:

- Search cat images by breed name
- Fetch a random cat image
- Show a small spinning default cat image while loading

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+ (recommended)
- npm

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Add your API key in `cat-finder/.env`:

```env
VITE_CAT_API_KEY=your_thecatapi_key_here
```

Important:
- The env file must be inside the `cat-finder` folder.
- If `npm run dev` is already running, restart it after editing `.env`.

## Run Locally

From `cat-finder/`:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open the local URL shown by Vite (usually `http://localhost:5173`).

## Usage

- Type a breed name (for example: `siamese`, `bengal`, `maine coon`) and click `Search` or press `Enter`.
- Click `Random` to get any random cat image.

## Scripts

- `npm run dev` starts development server
- `npm run build` creates production build
- `npm run preview` previews production build
- `npm run lint` runs ESLint

Commit message:

Update README.md with new project details

README.md, after:

# Cat Finder

A simple React + Vite web app that fetches adorable cat images by breed using [The Cat API](https://thecatapi.com/). Built for a front-end class project.

## Features

- 🐱 Search cat images by breed name
- 🎲 Fetch random cat images  
- ⏳ Loading spinner while fetching data

## Tech Stack

- **React** - UI library
- **Vite** - Build tool & dev server
- **The Cat API** - Cat image data source

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+ (recommended)
- npm
- A free API key from [The Cat API](https://thecatapi.com/)

## Setup

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Create a `.env` file in the root directory and add your API key:

```env
VITE_CAT_API_KEY=your_thecatapi_key_here
```

**Note:** If `npm run dev` is already running, restart it after adding the `.env` file.

## Getting Started

Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open the local URL shown by Vite (usually `http://localhost:5173`) in your browser.

## Usage

- **Search by breed:** Type a breed name (e.g., `siamese`, `bengal`, `maine coon`) and click **Search** or press **Enter**
- **Random cat:** Click **Random** to fetch any random cat image

## Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Create production build
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build locally
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint

## License

This project is open source. Feel free to use it for learning purposes.
